# Expense Tracker API with Spring Boot

The Expense Tracker API is a Java-based REST API developed using the Spring Boot framework. This API allows users to track and visualize their expenses through an expense chart, providing insights into the trends of increasing or decreasing expenses over time.

## Features

- **Expense Data:** The API enables users to input their expense data, including the amount spent and the date of the expense.

- **Data Visualization:** The core feature of the API is generating an expense chart that visually represents the trends in expense fluctuations over a specified period.

- **Trend Analysis:** The chart generated by the API helps users identify patterns, such as periods of increasing expenses, decreasing expenses, or stability.

- **Flexible Time Range:** Users can customize the time range for the expense chart, allowing them to analyze their expenses on a daily, weekly, monthly, or custom basis.

## API Documentation

For detailed information on how to use the Expense Tracker API endpoints, refer to the [API Documentation](https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/12462320/2s9Y5WyPrt) provided using Postman.

## Getting Started

To set up the Expense Tracker API on your local machine, follow these steps:

### Prerequisites

- Java Development Kit (JDK) 11 or higher
- Maven
- MySQL database (or any other supported database)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/alinaqi2000/Expenses-App-Java-Spring.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```bash
   cd Expenses-App-Java-Spring
   ```

3. Configure the database:

   - Open the `src/main/resources/application.properties` file.
   - Modify the database connection settings according to your MySQL configuration.

4. Build and run the application using Maven:

   ```bash
   mvn spring-boot:run
   ```

5. The API will start locally at `http://localhost:8080`.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
